

=head1 NAME

B<is_uint>   - Return success if auguement is a unsigned integer.

B<is_int>    - Return success if auguement is a signed integer.

B<is_ureal>  - Return success if auguement is a unsigned real.

B<is_real>   - Return success if auguement is a signed real.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<is_uint>  I<NUM>

B<is_int>   I<NUM>

B<is_ureal> I<NUM>

B<is_real>  I<NUM>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<is_uint> returns success if I<NUM> is an unsigned integer, I<e.g.> 99

B<is_int> returns success if I<NUM> is a signed integer, I<e.g.>, 99, +99 & -99

B<is_ureal> returns success if I<NUM> is an unsigned real, I<e.g.>, 99 & 99.99

B<is_real> returns success if I<NUM> is a signed real, I<e.g.>, 99, +99, -99, 99.99, +99.99 & -99.99

=head2 ARGUMENTS & OPTIONS

=over 4

=item I<NUM>

is an variable or value that may have a numerical value. (required)

=back

=head1 SECURITY

B<NOTE:> These functions do not require the user to run as root.

B<NOTE:> These functions do not contain security info.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

These fuctions are available in the Olaus Bash Library.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Included a couple of examples.

    if is_uint 299792458; then
        echo "299792458 is an unsigned integer."
    else
        echo "299792458 is not an unsigned integer."
    fi

    NUM=0.66274
    if is_ureal $NUM; then
        echo "$NUM is an unsigned real."
    else
        echo "$NUM is not an unsigned real."
    fi

=head1 NOTES & CAVEATS

Every unsigned integer is also 
a signed integer
and unsigned real and a signed real.

Every unsigned real is also an signed real, I<i.e.>,
a sign nor a decimal point is required for a real number.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

These functions return an exit code of 0.

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

No environmental variables are harmed by these functions.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

These functions are part of the Olaus Bash Library and
make use of its internals.
They are not stand alond functions.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

There are no known incompatabilities.

=head1 FILES

N/A

=head1 STANDARDS

N/A

=head1 VERSION

Version V00.00.00

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

There are no known bugs in this module.

Please report problems to <Mark Jensen> (E<lt>mark@jensen.netE<gt>)

Patches are welcome.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark J Jensen E<lt>mark@jensen.netE<gt>

=head1 HISTORY

   Date      Version   Description
2025-02-23  V00.00.00  Function created Mark

=head1 RESOURCES

=over 4

=item Barrett, Daniel J., I<et al.> 2005

Daniel J. Barrett, Richard E. Silverman, and Robert G. Byrnes.
2005.
I<SSH, the Secure Shell: The Definitive Guide>,
2nd Edition.
(Sebastopol: O'Reilly Media)

=item Robbins, Arnold and Nelson H. F. Beebe 2005

Arnold Robbins and Nelson H. F. Beebe.
2005.
I<Classic Shell Scripting>.
(Sebastopol: O'Reilly Media)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<ols_begin>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright E<copy> 2025 Mark J. Jensen. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

=over 4

=item 1.

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

=item 2.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

=back

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY MARK JENSEN ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL MARK JENSEN OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

=cut